# Solent Study Skills & Wellbeing App
Created by Jeykan Alaz – Student ID: Q12966932
## GitHub Link
https://github.com/JayAlaz/SWD601.git

# Introduction 
The objective behind this task is to explore the views of the students at Solent University, and decide from what point these students could be underserved, and to amend this with the development of a single page web-application to combat the issue. In this example I have decided to work towards developing a single page web-application that better features the extra help which is given to students through courses, workshops and events held by teams like the Student Achievement Team, Succeed@Solent, and the Learning Technologies (LT) Team. The Solent Study Skills & Wellbeing App has been developed in response to the results of the survey conducted in the prior report; many students have not taken advantage of the workshops and events that are hosted by the formerly mentioned teams at Solent; despite the results pointing to the sample believing they would benefit from these events. Many students have interacted with these teams for support and enquiries, but only a few have attended these events or workshops. For this reason, I have decided to implement an application which solely showcases these workshops and events, as the other services hosted by these teams are relatively well-known amongst the students. The app puts a spotlight onto these events in an attempt to increase the ease of engaging with them, this would prove to be greatly beneficial to the wellbeing and academic growth of the students at Solent University, by allowing them to more easily take advantage of the many events that promote wellbeing and stress-relieving activities, as well as workshops to help develop the core skills that are used each day by students when undertaking their work. 

# Problem Statement
What can be implemented to make it easier for students to engage with the university’s support workshops and events?

# App Features
I have tried to keep the app minimal and sleek in appearance to ensure that it does not look ‘busy’ in any way, as this will go against the objective of clearly showcasing the events. To achieve this, I added a bright, textured background to maintain a clean appearance, whilst still adding some styling to the application. As this is an app that specifically caters to the students at Solent; the University’s colour theme of red and white has been extended to this application to keep in style with the university’s other online features. Upon opening the app, you will be met with the welcoming page, this page has a very simple appearance as serves no purpose other than being a landing page for the app. The Events page showcases an arrangement of activities, lectures, and workshops that are targeted towards promoting wellbeing and improving study skills. Each event has been laid out in a very concise and comprehensible manner; clearly stating the name, date, and the location of each event below an image that relates to the event in question. If the end user is interested in attending a certain event, they simply have to click the star icon to Enrol to that event, this results in the star icon turning gold and outputting a “Favourited” message. Once the user has enrolled onto an event, it will then appear in the Enrolled Events page; this page showcases each event you have enrolled onto and is very useful in ensuring that events are not missed, as the date and location that it is taking place on will be listed. If for any reason the user can no longer attend the event that they have enrolled on, they can simply click the gold star icon to then Disenroll from that event on the Enrolled Events page, in which doing so will result in the gold star returning to its original colour and outputting a “Disenrolled from Event” message. The final page of this app is the Contact Us page; this page provides hyperlinks that will redirect users to the website or webpage of the teams that are in charge of the events being showcased, these links would potentially be used to make any enquiries to these teams. The Solent Study Skills & Wellbeing App would essentially be an app which is accessed through the Solent Online Learning (S.O.L) website, and as a result of this, would not require a registration process or to sign into the app itself, as the end users will already be signed in through Solent Online Learning. I concluded that this would be a great place to host the application, as the majority of content that relates to studying at Solent University is located on S.O.L

# Methodology
The methodology I have chosen to help me in managing this project and developing my application is the Kanban methodology paired with the Pomodoro Technique. The Kanban methodology utilises a Kanban board; one of the uses behind this board is to act as a visual reminder of what work needs to be completed, what is in progress, and what has been completed. When conducting this methodology, a WIP (Work in Progress) limit is usually set early on, this sets a limit on how many items are worked on at the same time in order to maximise efficiency, whilst ensuring that you are not stretched too thin while trying to complete a multitude of tasks at once. A typical Kanban board will most likely consist of a To-Do, In Progress, and Complete section, whilst some boards tend to have more. In conducting this methodology, I have chosen to implement a four section Kanban Board consisting of the To-Do, In Progress, Final Check, and Complete sections, along with a one item WIP limit and a two item Final Check limit – this will ensure that there are not too many items being carried out at once in order to maximise focus on each individual task being carried out. When carrying out these tasks, the pomodoro technique is used in order to upkeep a steady yet relaxed workflow – the Pomodoro Technique is the act of studying for twenty-five-minute intervals and taking five-minute breaks in between. Upon completing four, twenty-five-minute sessions, a longer break is then awarded. This technique allowed me to continuously work for long periods of time without feeling overwhelmed or stressed. In order to adapt the pomodoro technique to my own work style, I increased the time of each pomodoro from twenty-five, to forty-minutes and the breaks from five-minutes, to ten. 
## Methods 
The first set of data collection conducted took place around the start of this project and consisted of a 16-item survey conducted on a sample of thirty-one students. Results of this survey showed that the students were largely unaware of the workshops and events put into place by these teams, despite the majority of the sample previously receiving support and clarification from the teams. As a great portion of the sample responded in agreement that they believe they would benefit from taking part in these events and workshops; development began on creating a solution that would better showcase these events in a user-friendly application. The next sequence of data collection consisted of conducting user-testing in order to measure the performance of the application that has been developed, and to make any required changes to it in accordance with the criticisms received by the sample. The user-testing process was conducted on a sample of two undergraduate students. 

# Results & Conclusion
The data acquired through conducting the user-testing process was helpful in determining what aspects of this application received praise, and where it could improve. The responses were mostly positive in affirming that the Solent Study Skills & Wellbeing App successfully performs its purpose of showcasing the additional support workshops, events, and seminars at Solent University in a way that makes it easy for the end users to engage with these events. A critique was made by a member of the sample, that if the application were to grow in terms of displaying more events at one time; the implementation of a search bar or search refinement option would aid users in quickly finding the event they are interested in, or to allow users to filter the events listed into categories such as Wellbeing or Study Skills to allow for a clearer and less busy view of the events available to the students at Solent University.
